---
title: "Eberspächer expands its quality assurance for digital prototypes with a Teraport solutiondigitaler Prototypen"
date: 2009-09-08
lang: en
slug: "eberspaecher-expands-its-quality-assurance-for-digital-prototypes-with-a-teraport-solutiondigitaler-prototypen"
wp_id: 3997
trid: 3955
translation: "2009-09-08-eberspaecher-erweitert-die-qualitaetssicherung-digitaler-prototypen.md"
image: "/assets/uploads/2015/03/News_006_AGA.jpg"
---

In J. Eberspächer GmbH & Co. KG, Teraport Engineering has acquired yet another client for its DMU applications. Eberspächer is now able to increase quality in its product development by employing the application for the creation of dynamic envelopes in the DMU.Pack module. This will, furthermore, also significantly optimize the company’s collaboration with automobile manufacturers who use the Eberspächer exhaust systems.
The possibilities for quality assurance using virtual prototypes are subject to continuous further development. An ever increasing number of dynamic processes are now already being examined in the early stages of product development by means of the digital assembly of the CAD models. In this respect, Teraport’s calculation modules impress with their high performance level, even when the highest demands are being made on them and regardless of whether the geometry models comprise very large amounts of data or a particularly large number of steps of motion. The multitude of available output formats for the created geometries facilitates the smooth re-integration of the envelopes into a number of different visualization systems. As a result of the algorithm developed by Teraport, the amount of data is comparatively small and can be easily handled, even in the visualization of large scenes.
Hence J. Eberspächer GmbH & Co. KG is now also banking on solutions from the Teraport DMU- Toolkit to safeguard the wobbling or oscillating motion of exhaust systems. The software module DMU.Pack facilitates the transition of dynamic processes, such as those which are characterized by moving components, into static volumes. The simulation results are used to determine whether the motion of the exhaust system can have a critical effect on the closely packed package space. With the reduction of complex processes to simple geometry, the Teraport DMU-Toolkit facilitates a significant simplification of communication in the product development process. With the available geometry, possible problem areas, such as those where components subject to the influences of high temperature during vehicle operation could come too close to the neighboring parts in their environment, are immediately made visible in the digital product. J. Eberspächer GmbH & Co. KG can hence also incorporate these test results into its collaboration with the leading OEMs in the automobile industry. These, in turn, benefit from the high degree of transparency and quality in the integration of the supplied components into the virtual vehicle.
