---
title: "Aalen Foundry Colloquium: Innovations in Die Casting"
date: 2024-05-27
lang: en
slug: "6877"
wp_id: 6877
trid: 9527
translation: "2024-05-27-aalener-giesserei-kolloquium-2024-innovationen-in-druckguss.md"
image: "/assets/uploads/2024/05/Newsmeldung_Aalen_02.png"
---

The Aalen Foundry Colloquium 2024 was an important meeting place for experts and innovators in die casting. The event in Aalen presented the latest technologies and methods in the foundry industry.
The focus was on sustainable and efficient casting processes. Teraport's veoCAST, which sets new standards in the validation of casting designs, was also present. The latest version of veoCAST offers advanced functions for precise geometry analysis and undercut calculation, which are essential for optimising sensible slide demoulding directions.
“We are pleased to present the latest features of veoCAST at the Aalen Foundry Colloquium 2024,” said Dr. Stefan Wittmann, Product Manager for veoCAST. ”Our improvements are based, among other things, on the growing requirements of megacasting, a topic that is naturally of concern to many in specialist circles. The positive feedback from our customers confirms the value of our continuous improvements.”
In addition, veoCAST contributes to environmentally friendly component design with extensive functions for material savings.
‘mido’ also received a lot of attention. Mido revolutionises tool cost calculation by deriving cost drivers directly from 3D CAD models, enabling fast and accurate cost estimation.  “Mido represents a major step forward in terms of standardisation, accuracy and speed in tool costing,” said Philipp Hübner, Product Manager for mido at Teraport.
The colloquium featured live demonstrations that gave attendees hands-on experience with the latest tools and techniques. This hands-on approach facilitated a deeper understanding of how innovations can be implemented in real-life scenarios. In addition to the technological presentations, the event provided valuable networking opportunities. Industry leaders, researchers and practitioners exchanged insights and forged collaborations. “The Aalen Foundry Colloquium is not only a platform for innovation, but also a catalyst for change in the entire industry,” noted Dr. Wittmann. The 2024 Colloquium emphasised the dynamic progress in the die casting industry and the industry's commitment to innovation and sustainability.
